now Russia is the most sanctioned
country in the world and yet this year
its economy is set to grow faster than
all advanced economies according to the
international monetary fund later today
the Russian President Vladimir Putin is
hosting an international economic Forum
in St Petersburg our Russia editor Steve
Rosenberg is in St Petersburg with more
on what we can expect to hear from
President Putin well I mean it's an
international economic Forum so uh the
economy is going to be top of the list
we'll hear a lot about the economy and
certainly the Russian authorities are
trying to use this year's event this
year's Forum to say look we know we're
heavily sanctioned by the west but there
are plenty of other regions and
countries in the world ready to do
business with Russia so you know I
haven't seen this week many um CEOs from
America or Europe but delegations from
Asia from Africa from the Middle East
from South America so I expect president
Putin will make that point but apart
from the economy there's going to be a
lot I think about
geopolitics um that's been bubbling away
in the background in St Petersburg this
week the war in Ukraine The Soaring
tensions between Russia and the West in
fact earlier this week in St Petersburg
uh Vladimir Putin suggested that Russia
is considering uh supplying uh Advanced
conventional long- range missiles to
others uh uh to carry out strikes
against Western targets uh that would be
Russia's response to uh NATO allies
allowing Ukraine to use Western uh
missiles uh to strike Russian
territory Steve how is it then that
Vladimir Putin is able to prop up his
economy despite those sanctions how is
he circumventing
them yeah um With a Little Help from his
friends first of all so country like
India and China uh so for example Russia
has redirected um its oil exports from
Europe to India and China China's become
actually a Lifeline really for for for
the Russian economy but also Russia
continues to um make a lot of money from
its uh energy exports despite
International sanctions trying to slash
the amount of money that that Russia
earns from for example oil exports a lot
of money is pouring in and that is uh
being spent on the military on the
defense sector and that in turn is
fueling um economic growth uh probably
short-term economic growth because in
the long term uh a war economy that
we're seeing emerging in Russia is
hardly
sustainable and Steve Western Nations
have been criticized uh there have been
people saying that some of those
loopholes need to be tightened in order
for sanctions to have a real effect uh
on Russia what are we talking
about yeah that's true I mean for
example um the oil price cap now this
was a an idea that came up from the G7
Nations uh and EU leaders to cap the
price uh that Russia can sell its oil
around the world no more than $60 uh a
barrel that was the idea but Russia's
been able to circumvent that um and also
other um designed to U stop um you know
reduce the amount of of money Russia
gets uh from trade with with various
countries now recently the US Treasury
suggested um introducing secondary
sanctions on International Banks for
example that are doing transactions uh
with Moscow if that happens that will
put pressure I think on the Russian
economy uh and that is I think an area
of concern for the Russian authorities
right
now and that was uh Steve Rosenberg with
more on the economic Forum being held in
Russia